# Stock Market Analysis Based on Economic Conditions

Our AI project is a supervised ML model that predicts both the direction (UP/DOWN) and the magnitude (in %) of future fluctuations in stock market prices based on several macroeconomic factors (including FED Rate, VIX, Unemployment rate, Inflation, and several others), as well as historical stock patterns.

## Problem Statement <!--- do not change this line -->
The randomness of the fluctuations in stock market prices are notorious for being hard to predict, understand, or even make sense of. This sometimes puts off people from even trying to engage in stock trading and even finance professionals find it hard to find success in the highly unstable stock environment. This project aims to address this by leveraging the powerful tools offered by artificial intelligence and machine learning to extract insights from past stock data and present economic conditions, and use them to predict future changes in stock market prices. This can potentially help enlighten the public on how the stock market operates, and arm them with the necessary information needed to make more informed trading decisions.

## Key Results <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Enumerate the main results of this project in a list and describe them.

*EXAMPLE:*
1. *Recorded over 1,000 unique prompts and their responses generated by ChatGPT*
2. *Identified three biases in ChatGPT's responses*
   - *When prompted about this world event*
   - *When prompted about this field of science*
   - *When prompted about this political party*


## Methodologies <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)

*EXAMPLE:*
*To accomplish this, we utilized the OpenAI API to interact with ChatGPT, and we designed a custom Python script to generate diverse prompts and collect corresponding responses. The data was then processed and analyzed using pandas, enabling us to detect patterns and biases in the AI model's outputs.*
*Engineered a Python script to generate over 1,000 prompts and elicit their responses from ChatGPT, utilizing pandas to collect the data. When prompted for solutions to this specific relevant crisis, nearly 80% of ChatGPT's responses promoted a certain worldview.*


## Data Sources <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Include any relevant data sources that were used in your project.

*EXAMPLE:*
*Kaggle Datasets: [Link to Kaggle Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets)*

## Technologies Used <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
List the technologies, libraries, and frameworks used in your project.

*EXAMPLE:*
- *Python*
- *pandas*
- *OpenAI API*


## Authors <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
List the names and contact information (e.g., email, GitHub profiles) of the authors or contributors.

*EXAMPLE:*
*This project was completed in collaboration with:*
- *John Doe ([john.doe@example.com](mailto:john.doe@example.com))*
- *Jane Smith ([jane.smith@example.com](mailto:jane.smith@example.com))*
